hey this is pressure Locker if e equals
8 find the numerical value of the
following expression this problem
appeared as part of the MIT entrance
exam in 1869 at the time they would have
had limited mathematical typography so
this was written as an inline expression
if it is difficult for you to understand
the expression let me present the modern
formatting of this expression can you
figure it out remember to use only pen
and paper there were no handheld
calculators in 1869 give this problem a
try and when you're ready keep watching
the video for the solution the first
thing we'll do is we'll substitute the
value equals 8 so wherever we see the
variable e we will replace it with 8 we
now have a mathematical expression that
we need to calculate we have various
operations in this expression and we
will need to do them according to the
order of operations these are rules
about precedence in which we should
evaluate different operations we have
parentheses brackets then exponent
orders then multiplication division and
finally addition and subtraction if we
have two operators of the same
precedence then you should evaluate them
from left to right this single
expression actually tests all of these
rules so we'll get started with
parentheses and brackets we have two
different parenthetical expressions and
we'll evaluate the first one on the left
now within this parenthetical expression
we also have the square root which could
be treated like an exponent
so we have the square root of 8 plus 1
the square root also has an implied
grouping of 8 plus 1 so we'll first
evaluate 8 plus 1 is equal to 9 we now
have the square root of 9 which is equal
to 3 we now return to our parenthetical
expression and we have 3 plus 2 which is
equal to 5 will now evaluate the other
parenthetical expression in this one we
also have a cube root which we need to
evaluate first the cube root of 8 is
equal to 2 we know at 8 minus 2 which is
equal to 6 we now have an expression and
we need to evaluate the square root
which is 8 minus 4 so again we have an
implied grouping of 8 minus 4 so we take
8 minus 4 and we have the square root of
4 the square root of 4 is equal to 2 now
we have a multiplication that we need to
evaluate first this is 6 times 2 which
is equal to 12
finally we have a subtraction and in
addition we have 8 minus 5 and we have 5
plus 12 some people are not sure whether
to do the addition or the subtraction
first this is where the rule that if you
have operations of the same precedence
you can evaluate them from left to right
so we'll take the left operation first 8
minus 5 is equal to 3 and then we have 3
plus 12 which is equal to 15 and that's
our answer
that expression ultimately evaluates to
be 15 did you figure it out thanks for
watching this video please subscribe to
my channel I make videos on math and
game theory you can catch one in my blog
mind your decisions that you can follow
on Facebook Google+ and patreon you can
catch you on social media at pressure
Locker and if you like this video please
check out my books there are links in
the videos
corruption